
1. What is an object in Java?
a) A block of memory
b) An instance of a class
c) A function call
d) A variable


2. What is a constructor in Java?
a) A method that initializes a new object
b) A method that destroys an object
c) A method that can return any value
d) A static method



3. Which of the following is true about constructors in Java?
a) Constructors must have the same name as the class
b) Constructors can have a return type
c) Constructors can be inherited
d) Constructors are always abstract

4. How many constructors can a class have in Java?
a) Only one
b) Two
c) Zero or more
d) Exactly as many as the number of methods


5. What is the default constructor?
a) A constructor with no arguments provided by the programmer
b) A constructor with parameters provided by the programmer
c) A constructor with no parameters provided by Java if no constructor is defined
d) A constructor used to clone objects


6. Which of the following is NOT true about methods in Java?
a) Methods can be overloaded
b) Methods can be abstract
c) Methods cannot have the same name
d) Methods can have different access modifiers


7. What is method overloading in Java?
a) Defining multiple methods with the same name but different parameter lists
b) Using methods of one class in another
c) Overriding methods of a superclass
d) Calling multiple methods in a loop

8. What is method overriding in Java?
a) Creating a new method with the same name in a subclass
b) Creating multiple methods with the same name in the same class
c) Calling multiple methods in a sequence
d) None of the above


9. Which keyword is used to call the parent class constructor in Java?
a) parent
b) base
c) super
d) this


10. Which keyword is used to invoke the current class's constructor?
a) this
b) super
c) self
d) current



11. What is the return type of a constructor in Java?
a) void
b) Object
c) The class type
d) Constructors have no return type


12. What is the output of the following code?
java
Copy code
class Test {
    Test() {
        System.out.println("Constructor called");
    }
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Test obj = new Test();
    }
}
a) No output
b) Constructor called
c) Compile-time error
d) Runtime error

13. What happens if a class has no constructors defined?
a) The class will not compile
b) Java provides a default constructor
c) Objects cannot be created from the class
d) None of the above

14. Can a constructor be private in Java?
a) Yes, but only in abstract classes
b) Yes, it is used in singleton design patterns
c) No, constructors must be public
d) No, constructors must be protected

15. Which of the following methods is used to compare objects in Java?
a) compareTo()
b) compare()
c) equals()
d) hashCode()


16. What does the toString() method in Java do?
a) Returns a string representation of an object
b) Converts an object to a string
c) Both a and b
d) None of the above


17. Can a constructor call another constructor in the same class?
a) Yes, using the super keyword
b) Yes, using the this keyword
c) No, constructors cannot call each other
d) Only if the other constructor is public


18. What is a static method in Java?
a) A method that belongs to a class rather than an object
b) A method that cannot return a value
c) A method that can only be overridden
d) A method that must have the same name as the class


19. Which of the following statements is true about objects in Java?
a) An object can exist without a class
b) Every object has its own copy of class methods
c) An object is an instance of a class
d) None of the above


20. What does the finalize() method do?
a) It is used to destroy an object explicitly
b) It is called by the garbage collector before an object is destroyed
c) It initializes an object
d) It clones an object


21. Can a constructor be overloaded in Java?
a) Yes, constructors can be overloaded
b) No, only methods can be overloaded
c) Only static constructors can be overloaded
d) None of the above

22. Which keyword is used to prevent a method from being overridden?
a) static
b) final
c) abstract
d) private


23. Can a method return an object in Java?
a) Yes, a method can return an object
b) No, methods can only return primitive data types
c) Only if the object is static
d) None of the above


24. What is a copy constructor in Java?
a) A constructor that creates a duplicate object
b) A constructor that copies values from an array
c) Java does not have a built-in copy constructor
d) None of the above


25. What is the main purpose of encapsulation in Java?
a) To provide multiple inheritances
b) To protect data from unauthorized access
c) To provide faster execution
d) To increase object size


26. Which method is used to create a copy of an object in Java?
a) clone()
b) copy()
c) duplicate()
d) replicate()


27. Can a class have multiple static methods?
a) Yes, and they belong to the class rather than objects
b) No, only one static method is allowed
c) Only if they are overloaded
d) Only in abstract classes


28. What is the instanceof keyword used for?
a) To check the class type of an object
b) To create a new instance of a class
c) To compare two objects
d) To call methods on an object


29. Can an object be passed as a parameter to a method?
a) Yes, Java allows objects to be passed as parameters
b) No, only primitive types can be passed
c) Only if the object is a string
d) Only for static methods


30. What happens if you explicitly define no constructors in a class?
a) The class will not compile
b) Java will provide a default constructor
c) You must explicitly define at least one constructor
d) None of the above

